To see the partition structure inside an LVM (Logical Volume Manager)
partition on a system booted with Knoppix, you will need to use
command-line tools because LVM manages logical volumes independently
of traditional partition tables. Here's how you can do it:

Open a Terminal: Since you're using Knoppix, you should have access to
a terminal application. Open it.

Become Root: It's likely that you'll need root privileges to perform
these operations. You can become root by using the command sudo su or
prefixing commands with sudo.

Scan for LVM Physical Volumes: First, check if the LVM system recognizes
your physical volumes (PVs). Use the command:

bash

    sudo pvscan

This command scans all disks for physical volumes. It will list the physical
volumes part of any LVM setup on your system.

Display Physical Volume Information: To get more detailed information about a
specific physical volume, use:

bash

    sudo pvdisplay

This will give you details about the physical volume(s), including its size
and the volume group (VG) it belongs to.

Scan for Volume Groups: To see the volume groups available, use:

bash

    sudo vgscan

This will list all volume groups found on the system.

Display Volume Group Information: For detailed information about a
specific volume group, use:

bash

    sudo vgdisplay

This shows details about the volume group, including which physical
volumes are part of it and what logical volumes (LVs) it contains.

Scan for Logical Volumes: To see the logical volumes managed by LVM, use:

bash

    sudo lvscan

This command lists all logical volumes on the system.

Display Logical Volume Information: For detailed information about a
specific logical volume, use:

bash

    sudo lvdisplay

This will give you specifics about each logical volume, including its size,
the volume group it's part of, and its mount point if it's mounted.

Mounting a Logical Volume (Optional): If you find a logical volume that you
want to inspect the contents of, you can mount it (assuming it's not already
mounted) by creating a mount point (e.g., /mnt/myvolume) and then using
the mount command:

bash

    sudo mkdir /mnt/myvolume
    sudo mount /dev/vgname/lvname /mnt/myvolume

Replace vgname with the volume group name and lvname with the logical
volume name. After mounting, you can use file browsing tools or the
command line to inspect the contents of the volume.

Yes, the display commands like pvdisplay, vgdisplay, and lvdisplay will show
the sizes of physical volumes (PVs), volume groups (VGs), and logical volumes
(LVs) respectively, along with other detailed information. Here's what each
command will typically show regarding sizes:

    pvdisplay: This command provides details about physical volumes, including
    their total size, the amount of space used, and the amount of space
    available.

    vgdisplay: When you run this command, it shows information about volume
    groups. This includes the total size of the volume group, the amount of
    allocated space (used by logical volumes), and the free space available
    within the volume group for new or expanding logical volumes.

    lvdisplay: This command displays details about logical volumes, including
    their size. This size is the amount of storage space that the logical
    volume occupies within its volume group.

For each of these commands, the size information is clearly listed and is an
important part of managing storage with LVM, as it helps administrators
understand how space is allocated and utilized across physical volumes,
volume groups, and logical volumes.

Flexibility of LVM

One of the advantages of LVM is its flexibility in managing disk space:

Resizing Logical Volumes: LVM allows for the resizing of logical volumes
without the need for unmounting or downtime (in many cases). If a logical
volume is nearing capacity, it can often be expanded dynamically, provided
there is free space available in the volume group. This can prevent the
volume from getting filled up and impacting system operations or specific
applications.

Moving Logical Volumes: LVM also allows for the movement of logical volumes
between physical disks without changing their logical path. This can be useful
for maintenance or upgrading storage hardware.

Best Practices

To prevent any logical volume from filling up and potentially impacting
the system:

Monitoring: Regularly monitor disk usage across all logical volumes. Tools
and commands like df, du, and graphical monitoring applications can help
identify space usage and trends.

Alerting: Implement alerting based on thresholds for disk usage to get
notified before a volume reaches capacity.

Capacity Planning: Periodically review storage utilization and adjust capacity
as needed by either reducing unnecessary data or expanding volumes.

In summary, while logical volumes provide isolation and flexibility akin
to separate partitions, the implications of a volume filling up depend on
its role within the system. Proper monitoring and management practices are
essential to prevent and mitigate potential issues.
