valgrind: Tools like valgrind or compilers with sanitizers 
(e.g., -fsanitize=float-divide-by-zero, -fsanitize=float-cast-overflow) 
might help identify undefined behaviors or edge cases that behave 
differently across library versions.

1. ldd
While ldd does not trace library calls at runtime, it's useful for listing the shared libraries an 
executable is linked against. This can be a good starting point to understand which libraries your 
application depends on before you begin tracing actual calls.

bash
ldd /path/to/your/executable

2. ltrace
ltrace is a program that intercepts and records dynamic library calls made by an executable. 
It can trace calls to functions within shared libraries, including system libraries like libm,
and can show the parameters passed to each function and the return value from the functions.

bash
ltrace -o output.txt /path/to/your/executable

The -o output.txt option writes the trace output to output.txt, making it easier to analyze.

3. strace
strace is similar to ltrace but focuses on system calls made by a program. While strace is more 
about interactions with the kernel rather than library calls, it can still provide context on 
how an application is executing, especially regarding file, network, and device interactions.

bash
strace -o output.txt /path/to/your/executable

4. gdb
The GNU Debugger (gdb) can also be used to trace library calls by setting breakpoints on 
specific functions. This requires a more hands-on approach and possibly access to the 
source code or knowledge of the library's API.

bash
gdb /path/to/your/executable

Within gdb, you can set breakpoints on functions and run the program, inspecting the 
call stack and function arguments as it hits those breakpoints.

5. perf
perf is a performance analyzing tool in Linux, capable of a wide range of monitoring, 
including function calls. Using perf to capture call graphs can help identify which 
library functions are being called and how often, although it's more commonly used 
for performance analysis rather than detailed function call tracing.

bash
perf record -g /path/to/your/executable
perf report

6. System-specific tracing tools
Some systems have their specific tracing tools (like DTrace on Solaris and derivatives,
or SystemTap on Linux) that can be used to instrument and trace library calls in great 
detail.

